# Programerski klub FMF

This repository contains the code and the content for the official website of *Programerski klub FMF*, hosted publicly
at [https://progklub.si/](https://progklub.si/). It relies on the *Hugo* static site generator to build the `HTML`
files. It is deployed on *GitHub Pages* and on our virtual private server.

## Setup

Before you get started, set-up *Hugo* by following the [installation guide](https://gohugo.io/installation/). Make sure
*Dart Sass* is installed as well, as described in the [documentation](https://gohugo.io/functions/css/sass/#dart-sass).

Fork the repository, and clone the fork to your device. You can do this by running the command:

```shell
git clone LINK-TO-YOUR-FORK
```

Navigate to the folder containing your fork with the following command:

```shell
cd your-fork-name
```

This is where you'll do all the work.

## Adding Content

*Hugo* builds the site's content from *Markdown* files (ending `.md`) in the `content` folder and its subfolders.
Each file contains metadata as embedded *YAML* code (encapsulated by `---`), that *Hugo* can access.

To create a new content file run the `hugo new` command. Make sure that the file name is preceded by the appropriate
folder, as demonstrated below. This way, *Hugo* will already include the appropriate metadata template.

The only exception to this are the folders `about` and `entertainment`. Before implementing any changes in those
folders, consult the project managers.

To add or edit content, navigate to the respective folder and open your newly-created file in your chosen editor.
Before adding or editing content, it is recommended to check the existing pages to see how they are structured.

### News

This folder should contain news about the club such as recent events and announcements.

To create a new news page, run the following command:

```shell
hugo new news/folder-name
```

Your folder is located at `content/news/folder-name`.

You must correctly set the `title` field in the news page metadata. The `date` field is automatically generated by
*Hugo* when you run the `hugo new` command, and generally should not be changed. If you want, you may also include your
name as the `author`, and a cover image with its description in `coverUrl` and `coverAlt`. The cover image should be
uploaded to the `images` folder inside your news page folder. Any unset fields should be removed from the metadata
section.

### Workshops

This folder should contain information about the upcoming and past computer science workshops that the club organizes.

To create a new workshop page, run the following command:

```shell
hugo new workshops/folder-name
```

Your folder is located at `content/workshops/folder-name`.

The `title`, `presenter`, `date` and `location` fields in the workshop page metadata must be correctly set. Although the
`date` field is automatically generated by *Hugo*, it should be changed to reflect the actual date and time of the
workshop. The `published` field is also automatically generated, and should not be changed. If you want, you may also
include a cover image with its description in `coverUrl` and `coverAlt`. The cover image should be uploaded to the
`images` folder inside your workshop page folder. Any unset fields should be removed from the metadata section.

### Projects

This folder should contain information about the projects that the club is currently working on.

To create a new project page, run the following command:

```shell
hugo new projects/file-name.md
```

Your file is located at `content/projects/file-name.md`.

You must correctly set the `title` field in the project page metadata. It is also recommended to include a short
description of the project in the `description` field, and a link to the project's `website` and `repository` if they
exist. The project's contact persons should be listed in the `contacts` field. The `published` field is automatically
generated by *Hugo*, and should not be changed. Any unset fields should be removed from the metadata section.

## Testing

To test your code locally, run the command:

```shell
hugo server -D
```

You should now be able to access the demo site at `https://localhost:1313/`.

## Repository Structure

The project is organized according to the standard *Hugo* repository structure. For more information on the structure of
a *Hugo* website, visit the official documentation about
[directory structure](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/directory-structure/),
[configuration](https://gohugo.io/configuration/) and
[content management](https://gohugo.io/content-management/).

### Configuration Files

The repository contains the following configuration files:

- `hugo.toml`: *Hugo* configuration file that defines the site's global settings.
- `.editorconfig`: Defines coding styles and formatting rules for different file types.
- `.gitattributes`: Specifies line feed normalization and enhanced diff settings for Git.
- `.gitignore`: Specifies files and directories that should be ignored by Git.

These files should not be changed without consulting the project managers.

### Archetypes

The `archetypes` folder contains content templates. These will automatically copy into the new file and populate certain
fields when you run the `hugo new` command.

For example, when you run `hugo new projects/file-name.md`, *Hugo* will copy the content of `archetypes/projects.md`
into the newly created file, while also filling out the `title` and `date` fields in the meta section.

This is why we don't create new files directly, and instead use the `hugo new` command.

### Assets

The `assets` folder contains the site's global assets, including images, stylesheets and scripts.

#### Assets/Images

The folder `assets/images` contains the site's global images, such as the homepage image.

#### Assets/Scripts

The folder `assets/scripts` contains the site's global scripts, such as the script for navigation bar toggle.

#### Assets/Styles

The folder `assets/styles` contains the site's global stylesheets. The main file, `main.scss`, imports and sets up the
[*Bulma*](https://bulma.io/) *CSS* framework, the [*Font Awesome*](https://fontawesome.com/) icon library, and imports
the additional custom styles, such as cookies button and the matrix background.

You must not change anything inside the `bulma` or `fontawesome` folders as they contain the source code for the
respective libraries.

For more information about customizing *Bulma* styles, visit the official documentation
on [customization](https://bulma.io/documentation/customize/).

### Content

The `content` folder stores the content of this webpage. Unless you're working on structural changes to the site, this
is the only folder you should access.

Check the *adding content* section above for more information about adding content.

```shell
content
├── news
│   ├── _index.md
│   └── news-name
│       ├── images
│       └── index.md
│── workshops
│   ├── _index.md
│   └── workshop-name
│       ├── images
│       └── index.md
├── projects
│   ├── _index.md
│   └── project-name.md
├── about
│   ├── _index.md
│   ├── discord.md
│   ├── meetings.md
│   ├── projects.md
│   ├── vision.md
│   └── workshops.md
└── entertainment
    ├── _index.md
    └── pi-game
```

### Data

The `data` folder contains additional *YAML* data that *Hugo* can use when generating the site. Contains information
such as sponsors, meetings and navigation links.

### Layouts

The `layouts` folder defines the site's *HTML* templates. In its structure it mirrors the `content` folder, which
defines how each subpage is rendered.

This folder should not be changed without consulting the project managers.

### Static

The folder `static` contains the site's global static files, such as favicons and logos. These files are not processed
by *Hugo* and are directly copied to the `public` folder when the site is built.

### Generated Folders

When building the site, *Hugo* generates the `public` folder, which contains the rendered website content. *Hugo* also
generates the `resources` folder, which contains the processed assets. These folders should not be changed manually and
should be ignored by Git.

## GitHub Actions

The project uses *GitHub Actions* to automatically build and deploy the site to *GitHub Pages* and our virtual private
server. The page is built on every `push` and `pull request` event, and deployed on `push` events to the `main` branch.
